## 9-18-23 Notes about Testing

coverage = # of covered items/(# of lines of code) * 100%
Includes

1. Statements
2. Branch coverage
3. path coverage
4. mutation coverage

Test coverage can reveal what lines of code are not tested or may have 
undefined behavior.

Using the command tool "python-coverage" you can generate a report over a 
python script and generate a report that details what lines are not covered.

100% test coverage does not mean bug free
---

It just means that you have good quality, but not zero bugs.

Statement coverage is just if your code has executed the lines O(n) n = # lines
Branch coverage is for if you have covered both sides of all conditionals (if) O(2n) = n
Path coverage is covering all possible paths for conditionals O(2^n) 

Test Driven Development
---

Write the tests first ( what you want it to do ), then
<code>Write the code</code>

XUnit: Junit, PyUnit, Nunit, EmbUnit
Jasmine for JS
Mocha for Node.js
Simplest for PHP

#### Code Creation Method:
1. Write tests that fail...
2. Write code that sufficiently addresses the test
3. Run again: FAIL -> Restart; PASS -> Write another test.


## CI/CD
Two separate processes that happen one after the other.
CI is automated so that when you integrate your work stays close to the actual
development.

CD is the actual deployment

## 4 Steps to CI
#### Plan > Code > Build > Test
## 3 Steps to CD
#### Release > Deploy > Operate

There is an alternate deployment method that uses integration, delivery, and deployment

#### Integration
Uses Code Repo & Version Control,
Build and integration automation

#### Delivery
Release automation
Delivery automation

#### Deployment
Production Automation (automatic Publishing)

## How is this different than usual dev?
Shorter, Faster, Autonated

#### Traditional
- Devs working on long-lived branches
- Merging and building occurs periodically
- Continued development on branches causes drift.... (BAD)
- Might have many merge conflicts

#### CI Dev
- Short lived branches (no drift)
- Frequent Pull requests
- Automated CI tools...
- Frequent Updates and projections because many meetings
- Faster reaction to change
- Reduced management risks

## Automated CI/CD Tools
Github Actions
Circle CI
Jenkins CI
Travis CI

These stream line changes, tests, and integration.
--

## Benefits of CI
Integrating smaller and smaller things
- Smaller changes means less risk.

Every pull Request is a code review opportunity.
Minimum 2 people to approve the PR

Provide appropriate responses

### Github Actions
.github/workflows/{.yaml files}

It is event based programming => Push/Pull Req/Release/Issues ....
Runners are built into the environment (Built-in & Hosted)
The runners perform jobs. and Each jobs have steps and actions

Steps --
Abstract ideas that need to happen.

Actions --
- Deploying
- Building
- Testing
- Etc...

Jobs have stesp


